Added LINEAR HASH/KEY mysql compatibility (#11085)
pingcap/docs: partitioned-table.md

=  1
```

#### LINEAR HASH handling

> `PARTITION BY LINEAR HASH` is accepted by the LINEAR is ignored, and it will be created as a non-linear HASH partitioned table. Before v6.4 it was created as a non-partitioned table.

Reviewer: “`PARTITION BY LINEAR HASH` is accepted by the LINEAR is ignored”: there are two "is" in this sentence, what does it mean? @mjonss Would you please update it? Thanks.

Author: @qiancai Thank you for the review, I have updated the phrasing, please take a look.

> `PARTITION BY LINEAR HASH` is parsed by TiDB, but the LINEAR word is ignored. The table will be created as a non-linear HASH partitioned table. Before v6.4 it was created as a non-partitioned table.

Reviewer: @mjonss I've suggested the changes in the above comment to add more information for users. Would you help confirm if it is OK? Thanks.  /cc @moyun

=  1
```

#### LINEAR HASH handling

Before v6.4, if you execute DDL statements of MySQL Linear Hash partitions in TiDB, TiDB can only create non-partitioned tables. In this case, if you still want to use partitioned tables in TiDB, you need to update your DDL statements.

Since v6.4.0, TiDB supports parsing the MySQL `PARTITION BY LINEAR HASH` syntax but ignores the `LINEAR` keyword in it. If you have some existing DDL and DML statements of MySQL Linear Hash partitions, you can execute them in TiDB without modification:

- For DDL statements of MySQL Linear Hash partitions, TiDB will create non-linear Hash partitioned tables correspondingly (note that Linear Hash partitioned tables are not provided in TiDB). 

> - For DML statements of MySQL Linear Hash partitions, as long as you do not use explicit partition selection, TiDB will return the query results of the corresponding TiDB Hash partitioned normally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For DML statements of MySQL Linear Hash partitions, as long as you do not use [partition selection](#partition-selection), TiDB will return the query results of the corresponding TiDB Hash partitioned normally.
```

> - DML statements of MySQL Linear Hash partitions are not affected unless you use explicit partition selection, in which case TiDB will return the query results of the corresponding TiDB Hash partitioned normally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For DML statements of MySQL Linear Hash partitions, as long as you do not use explicit partition selection, TiDB will return the query results of the corresponding TiDB Hash partitioned normally.
```

Reviewer: @mjonss I made a new suggested change as above. PTAL. Thanks.

Author: @qiancai explicit partition selection, seems like it is just mentioned as 'partition selection' https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/partitioned-table#partition-selection

Reviewer: @mjonss Got it. Thanks for the explanation. If so, we could add a link to partition selection as in the my suggestion below.

> - For DML statements of MySQL Linear Hash partitions, as long as you do not use [partition selection](#partition-selection), TiDB will return the query results of the corresponding TiDB Hash partitioned normally.

Reviewer 2: I have a question here: what will happen when users used `partition selection` against the table created by a `linear hash` DDL in TiDB?  Is there any notable difference? (behavior different to MySQL?)

Author: Since the rows will be distributed differently among the partitions (unless the number of partitions is equal to 2^n), then the partition selections will be different also. That is what I wanted to say.

> - For DML statements of MySQL Linear Hash partitions, as long as you do not use [partition selection](#partition-selection), TiDB will return the query results of the corresponding TiDB Hash partitioned normally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For DML statements of MySQL Linear Hash partitions, as long as you do not use [partition selection](#partition-selection), TiDB will return the query results of the corresponding TiDB Hash partitioned normally.  For explicit partition selection, if the number of partitions is a multiple of 2 (which means that the rows of a table can be distributed evenly among the partitions), TiDB can return the results as expected. Otherwise, a partition will be folded into other partitions and TiDB will return a different set of rows.
```

Reviewer: @mjonss @moyun I added a note for the case of partition selection, PTAL. Thanks.

Reviewer 2: LGTM

Author: @qiancai How about the change I proposed below?

Reviewer: OK. Looks good to me. Let me commit the change and refine some wording.

> - For DDL statements of MySQL Linear Hash partitions, TiDB will create non-linear Hash partitioned tables correspondingly (note that Linear Hash partitioned tables are not provided in TiDB). 
> - For DML statements of MySQL Linear Hash partitions, as long as you do not use [partition selection](#partition-selection), TiDB will return the query results of the corresponding TiDB Hash partitioned normally.

Author: ```suggestion
- For CREATE statements of MySQL Linear Hash partitions, TiDB will create non-linear Hash partitioned tables (note that Linear Hash partitioned tables are not provided in TiDB), which will be the same if number of partitions is a power of 2. Otherwise it will have a different distribution of the rows, non-linear uses a simple 'modulus number of partition' and linear uses 'modulus next power of 2 and folding the values between the number of partitions and the next power of 2', see [#38450](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38450).
- For all other statements of MySQL Linear Hash partitions it will work the same as non-linear hash, except that the rows are distributed differently if the number of partitions is not a power of 2, which will give different results for [partition selection](#partition-selection), `TRUNCATE PARTITION` and `EXCHANGE PARTITION`.
```

> - For CREATE statements of MySQL Linear Hash partitions, TiDB will create non-linear Hash partitioned tables (note that Linear Hash partitioned tables are not provided in TiDB), which will be the same if number of partitions is a power of 2. Otherwise it will have a different distribution of the rows, non-linear uses a simple 'modulus number of partition' and linear uses 'modulus next power of 2 and folding the values between the number of partitions and the next power of 2', see [#38450](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38450).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For a CREATE statement of MySQL Linear Hash partitions, TiDB will create a non-linear Hash partitioned table (note that Linear Hash partitioned tables are not provided in TiDB). If the number of partitions is a power of 2, the rows in the table in TiDB are distributed the same as that in MySQL. Otherwise, the distribution of these rows in TiDB is different from MySQL. This is because non-linear partitioned tables use a simple 'modulus number of partition', while linear partitioned tables use 'modulus next power of 2 and folding the values between the number of partitions and the next power of 2'. For details, see [#38450](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38450).
```

> - For a CREATE statement of MySQL Linear Hash partitions, TiDB will create a non-linear Hash partitioned table (note that Linear Hash partitioned tables are not provided in TiDB). If the number of partitions is a power of 2, the rows in the table in TiDB are distributed the same as that in MySQL. Otherwise, the distribution of these rows in TiDB is different from MySQL. This is because non-linear partitioned tables use a simple 'modulus number of partition', while linear partitioned tables use 'modulus next power of 2 and fold the values between the number of partitions and the next power of 2'. For details, see [#38450](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38450).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- For a `CREATE` statement of MySQL Linear Hash partitions, TiDB will create a non-linear Hash partitioned table (note that there is no Linear Hash partitioned tables in TiDB). If the number of partitions is a power of 2, the rows in the table in TiDB are distributed the same as that in MySQL. Otherwise, the distribution of these rows in TiDB is different from MySQL. This is because non-linear partitioned tables use a simple "modulus number of partition", while linear partitioned tables use "modulus next power of 2 and fold the values between the number of partitions and the next power of 2". For details, see [#38450](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38450).

```

> - For a CREATE statement of MySQL Linear Hash partitions, TiDB will create a non-linear Hash partitioned table (note that Linear Hash partitioned tables are not provided in TiDB). If the number of partitions is a power of 2, the rows in the table in TiDB are distributed the same as that in MySQL. Otherwise, the distribution of these rows in TiDB is different from MySQL. This is because non-linear partitioned tables use a simple 'modulus number of partition', while linear partitioned tables use 'modulus next power of 2 and folding the values between the number of partitions and the next power of 2'. For details, see [#38450](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38450).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For a CREATE statement of MySQL Linear Hash partitions, TiDB will create a non-linear Hash partitioned table (note that Linear Hash partitioned tables are not provided in TiDB). If the number of partitions is a power of 2, the rows in the table in TiDB are distributed the same as that in MySQL. Otherwise, the distribution of these rows in TiDB is different from MySQL. This is because non-linear partitioned tables use a simple 'modulus number of partition', while linear partitioned tables use 'modulus next power of 2 and fold the values between the number of partitions and the next power of 2'. For details, see [#38450](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38450).
```

> - For all other statements of MySQL Linear Hash partitions it will work the same as non-linear hash, except that the rows are distributed differently if the number of partitions is not a power of 2, which will give different results for [partition selection](#partition-selection), `TRUNCATE PARTITION` and `EXCHANGE PARTITION`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For all other statements of MySQL Linear Hash partitions, they work in TiDB the same as that in MySQL, except that the rows are distributed differently if the number of partitions is not a power of 2, which will give different results for [partition selection](#partition-selection), `TRUNCATE PARTITION`, and `EXCHANGE PARTITION`.
```

=  1
```

#### How TiDB handles Linear Hash partitions

Before v6.4.0, if you execute DDL statements of [MySQL Linear Hash](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/partitioning-linear-hash.html) partitions in TiDB, TiDB can only create non-partitioned tables. In this case, if you still want to use partitioned tables in TiDB, you need to modify the DDL statements.

> Since v6.4.0, TiDB supports parsing the MySQL `PARTITION BY Linear Hash` syntax but ignores the `LINEAR` keyword in it. If you have some existing DDL and DML statements of MySQL Linear Hash partitions, you can execute them in TiDB without modification:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Since v6.4.0, TiDB supports parsing the MySQL `PARTITION BY LINEAR HASH` syntax but ignores the `LINEAR` keyword in it. If you have some existing DDL and DML statements of MySQL Linear Hash partitions, you can execute them in TiDB without modification:
```

> - For a `CREATE` statement of MySQL Linear Hash partitions, TiDB will create a non-linear Hash partitioned table (note that there is no Linear Hash partitioned table in TiDB). If the number of partitions is a power of 2, the rows in the table in TiDB are distributed the same as that in MySQL. Otherwise, the distribution of these rows in TiDB is different from MySQL. This is because non-linear partitioned tables use a simple "modulus number of partition", while linear partitioned tables use "modulus next power of 2 and fold the values between the number of partitions and the next power of 2". For details, see [#38450](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38450).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For a `CREATE` statement of MySQL Linear Hash partitions, TiDB will create a non-linear Hash partitioned table (note that there is no Linear Hash partitioned table in TiDB). If the number of partitions is a power of 2, the rows in the TiDB Hash partitioned table are distributed the same as that in the MySQL Linear Hash partitioned table. Otherwise, the distribution of these rows in TiDB is different from MySQL. This is because non-linear partitioned tables use a simple "modulus number of partition", while linear partitioned tables use "modulus next power of 2 and fold the values between the number of partitions and the next power of 2". For details, see [#38450](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38450).
```

> - For a `CREATE` statement of MySQL Linear Hash partitions, TiDB will create a non-linear Hash partitioned table (note that there is no Linear Hash partitioned tables in TiDB). If the number of partitions is a power of 2, the rows in the table in TiDB are distributed the same as that in MySQL. Otherwise, the distribution of these rows in TiDB is different from MySQL. This is because non-linear partitioned tables use a simple "modulus number of partition", while linear partitioned tables use "modulus next power of 2 and fold the values between the number of partitions and the next power of 2". For details, see [#38450](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38450).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For a `CREATE` statement of MySQL Linear Hash partitions, TiDB will create a non-linear Hash partitioned table (note that there is no Linear Hash partitioned table in TiDB). If the number of partitions is a power of 2, the rows in the table in TiDB are distributed the same as that in MySQL. Otherwise, the distribution of these rows in TiDB is different from MySQL. This is because non-linear partitioned tables use a simple "modulus number of partition", while linear partitioned tables use "modulus next power of 2 and fold the values between the number of partitions and the next power of 2". For details, see [#38450](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38450).
```
